Brady Lund: Hello, everyone, and welcome to Module 2.
Brady Lund: And
Brady Lund: yes, I am recording this immediately after recording module one. I do not wear this same exact shirt every day, but
Brady Lund: I thought it would be great to just jump right into our second module here, since it's pretty closely related to module one right and module one. We're talking about.
Brady Lund: What is information science? Now, we're going to talk about. Why does information science exist? We're going to talk about the history of information science. And we're going to go back first.st
Brady Lund: Quite, quite a long ways. We're gonna look
Brady Lund: some early history of what information sciences. And as I mentioned in module one
Brady Lund: information science, a lot of what we have as our history does come from library science. Now we have since branched off, and we look at information technology in a variety of contexts. But historically, the way of storing information, as I mentioned, was through documents, through written word, through tablets through artifacts.
Brady Lund: and so naturally we evolved out of the field out of the profession of librarianship.
Brady Lund: And actually, librarianship is one of the oldest professions we have.
Brady Lund: We have records of libraries dating back to 3,000 BC. In Mesopotamia. So
Brady Lund: it's a very old profession. But the idea, the modern idea of organizing records, organizing collections really came out of
Brady Lund: the period
Brady Lund: of the enlightenment. We're talking about the 17 hundreds, the 18 hundreds. This is a period where we experienced
Brady Lund: rapid growth in the amount of documents that we're creating. There was rapid political change around the globe.
Brady Lund: There was the spread of
Brady Lund: the print printing presses, the publish word. And so out of that comes a need to organize these massive collections.
Brady Lund: And we see in the early 19th century. So we're talking about the 18 hundreds. In the United States we have the establishment of the Library of Congress, which is kind of our expansive collection of
Brady Lund: printed resources here in the United States.
Brady Lund: and we see the growth of government related printing, printing, government works, printing documentation, basically of everything that goes on in the world. But the Library of Congress was really a fundamental step in creating a formal study
Brady Lund: of information, of information science, because all of a sudden we had this collection that tried to be expansive, tried to collect a copy, basically of every resource that exists in the United States that's in print.
Brady Lund: and that stores
Brady Lund: pretty much. All of our government records and documents. So we're talking about millions upon millions of resources. And that's much more expansive than a lot of the historical libraries that might have a few 1,000 resources.
Brady Lund: So if we're dealing with millions upon millions of resources, then we're talking about having some kind of organizational system to arrange these resources so that they'll be easy to find.
Brady Lund: And that's a core principle of information, sciences, ease of access and information access. How are we going to take all of this information that's out there in the world and make it accessible to people.
Brady Lund: So we are focused here on
Brady Lund: the concept of ease of access.
Brady Lund: and we see also, during this period that we have
Brady Lund: the emergence of the Public Library.
Brady Lund: In fact, over 2,000 public libraries were formed in the period of the mid to late
Brady Lund: 18 hundreds, and this was because of funding provided from a wide variety of sources over this time, and the belief, and
Brady Lund: particularly a belief within communities that there is value in having a public library that communicated something about your community, that you had free access to these different resources. This was a big change, because before the 18 hundreds there were libraries. There were community libraries in many cases, but they weren't always free.
Brady Lund: You may have had subscription libraries. So if you think about like a Netflix service, you might have a version of Netflix for libraries where you pay a subscription fee, and then you're able to go out and rent a certain number of resources. Borrow a certain number of books in a certain period.
Brady Lund: The other thing we have that's coming out of this enlightenment idea is the idea of formal disciplines, of formal professions. And what's coming out of these
Brady Lund: concepts
Brady Lund: is that we need professional organizations to help guide the directions of our disciplines. What's important to us as professionals?
Brady Lund: And so within our discipline, we had the American Library Association that was formed in 1850, and the idea behind forming that organization is, we need some common group that advocates for libraries that set standards for how libraries should be run in order to guide and kind of standardize our profession.
Brady Lund: And so at that stage we had librarianship. We had a profession of librarianship. But we are still working on developing what would be called library science and later information science. So when we talk about library science or information science. We're talking about a science. We're talking about a discipline with
Brady Lund: involving scientific approaches and study.
Brady Lund: So the 1st of these programs was founded by Melville Dewey, whose name is
Brady Lund: Pretty, commonly known. Associated with the library classification scheme. He founded the Dewey Decimal system.
Brady Lund: and that was founded in Columbia University, which had a very prominent
Brady Lund: library science program at the time they no longer have one, but at the time a very important program in what is called library economy, and so more focused on the managerial aspects of running a library
Brady Lund: over time. The discipline matured.
Brady Lund: And you can see that in the 19 twenties we started to fund library schools at the graduate level. This is where
Brady Lund: the terminal degree.
Brady Lund: so to speak, for a librarian went from being an undergraduate degree, bachelor's level to being a graduate degree or a master's degree. So in order to work at the highest level within a library today, you need to have a master's of library and Information Science Degree. That idea of having that be a graduate degree of that requiring more advanced study, emerged out of this period.
Brady Lund: and the University of Chicago was very important and prominent in developing the field of library science. It became, instead of a library economy, what the programs were called at the time in actual science, because we started to incorporate theory into our work.
Brady Lund: we started to do more substantive research, actual empirical research where we're studying. How do people use the library? How do people interact with the resources in our library? We started to take theories from other disciplines and apply it to how we're studying libraries. So we might take a sociological theory and use it to understand, how are people using books within our library?
Brady Lund: Well, it doesn't take very long to say.
Brady Lund: Okay, well, let's think about information. Let's think about these resources beyond just the context of libraries.
Brady Lund: You know, we have many different forms of information.
Brady Lund: A common store of information is certainly libraries, but but there is much more beyond just libraries, with information, especially throughout the 20th century. As we started to see the development of television radio
Brady Lund: computers. And then the Internet, we started to see there are many different forms of information that we could be studying, but regardless of the format of the information we're interacting with, there are some common problems we need to address.
Brady Lund: How are we going to represent this information.
Brady Lund: So obviously, we don't just wanna have a big
Brady Lund: list that we're scrolling through in order to find the resource we need.
Brady Lund: We don't wanna just
Brady Lund: go to Youtube and just have a a dropdown list with every single Youtube video that's ever been created, or go to tick, tock and have to scroll through every video that's ever been made in order to find one that's of interest to us. So how are we going to arrange and organize these resources in order to be able to find the exact ones that we're interested in?
Brady Lund: How can we design systems that are going to help us to organize, classify, and retrieve this information.
Brady Lund: So we're going to be talking over the course of the semester about concepts like metadata
Brady Lund: information that describes these resources that represents these resources. And this is the foundation of creating something like a search engine of creating database systems is the idea that we can take some bits of information from our main information resource in order to represent it in order to support finding. So if you think about like a print book.
Brady Lund: we have information like a title, an author publisher that would help us to find the specific resources we're interested in without having to list that entire information contained within that resource list. Everything within that book. We can represent it using things like the title, like the author. In order to then find the resources we're interested in, and then go within a library, for instance, and find the actual book itself.
Brady Lund: And then, of course, how are we going to optimize the accessibility and usability of this information, how are we going to make it
Brady Lund: as manageable for users as possible?
Brady Lund: And so, finally, we have really a convergence here within our discipline
Brady Lund: of these concepts of information, science and library science. So while information, science emerged from library science, it then departed. For a while we had people who were specializing in one area and people who specialized in another, and it took a while for it to come back together to coalesce and say, we can have both of these groups, people studying libraries and people studying other information context within a single program. So that's what we have here
Brady Lund: at the University of North Texas, we'll have some faculty members. If you look at the list of our faculty, who study librarianship, who study the theory and philosophy behind libraries, and we have some people who don't study the library context at all. And we have some people who do both. I study both contexts. And so
Brady Lund: we really are focused in this generation in this day and age and studying both
Brady Lund: the applications within the library context, but also the context of how we interact with information, how we interact with systems and databases within a wide variety of contexts. So, as I said with our past video, you gotta figure out what is of interest of you. Why are you in this course? Are you interested in libraries? Maybe you're
Brady Lund: in a field like psychology. But you really are interested in like
Brady Lund: psychology library, like psychology collections and libraries and helping people do research in psychology from the position of a librarian. But perhaps you're interested in more about how this can apply from an information science concept
Brady Lund: to your research. So maybe you're still in psychology. But you're more interested in like studying the psychology of how people interact with information systems, how people interact with social media. Well, the great thing is that all fits within information science, that's all
Brady Lund: fits within what you can study in this program study within this course. So as we progress through the semester, you're going to be able to study either of those contexts based on your particular interests.
Brady Lund: So that is it for our video for this week, as always, please work through the remaining content in the module. Feel free to contact me. If you have any questions, and I will see you again in our next week. Have a great week.